[GIGA Display Shield] emWin Guide (#1725)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/10.mega/shields/giga-display-shield/tutorials/12.emwin-guide/content.md

## Downloading the Library and Core

The GIGA R1 core includes the [Arduino_H7_Video](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video) library that handles the display.

In this guide, we will be using three different libraries:
- [Arduino_H7_Video](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video), this one is bundled with the core, so make sure you have the latest version of the [Mbed core](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed) installed.
- [Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/libraries/arduino_gigadisplaytouch/)
- [DIALOG.h](), the emWin library

To install them, open the library manager and install the latest version by searching for **"emWin"**.

In the sketch include the library like this:

```arduino
#include "DIALOG.h" /* emWin library includes Arduino_H7_Video and Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch library */
```

## General Set Up

In this section, we will go through the fundamental elements of an emWin sketch:
- How to define & configure the display,
- how to create a grid layout,
- how to add an object to the grid,
- how to update the display.

### emWin Screen Configuration

> When creating elements, information about the screen and placement needs to be provided. Let's create a pointer variable that can be used whenever the screenspace needs to be used.

Reviewer: Yes, code does different things. I proposed my review

### Full Example

```arduino
void setup() {
  /* Init SEGGER emWin library. It also init display and touch controller */
  GUI_Init();

  LCD_ROTATE_SetSel(1); /* Set landscape mode */
  WM_MULTIBUF_Enable(1); /* Enable multi buffering mode for Windows manager */

  /* Create the main window. It will include all the sub-windows */
  WM_CreateWindowAsChild(0, 0, LCD_GetXSize(), LCD_GetYSize(), WM_HBKWIN, WM_CF_SHOW, _cbWin, 0);
}
```

### Window Manager 

The examples in this tutorial will be using the window manager method. This makes it easier to manage the screen elements and widgets. However, it is also possible to create emWin sketches without the window manager, which will be shown in this section.

> Here is an example that will make the screens background color red and print the text "Hello world" on the screen. Lets first take a look at how this would look without the window manager:

Reviewer: Yes, correct!

```arduino
#include <DIALOG.h>

void setup() {
  GUI_Init();
  GUI_MULTIBUF_Begin();
  GUI_SetBkColor(GUI_GREEN);
  GUI_Clear();
  GUI_SetColor(GUI_RED);
  GUI_DispString("Hello world");
  GUI_MULTIBUF_End();
}

void loop() {
  GUI_Exec();
}
```

And to get the same result with a window manager, it would look like this:

```arduino
#include "DIALOG.h"

static void _cbWin(WM_MESSAGE * pMsg) {
  switch (pMsg->MsgId) {
  case WM_PAINT:
    GUI_SetBkColor(GUI_GREEN);
    GUI_Clear();
    GUI_SetColor(GUI_RED);
    GUI_DispString("Hello world");
    break;
  default:
    WM_DefaultProc(pMsg);
    break;
  }
}

void setup() {
  GUI_Init();
  WM_MULTIBUF_Enable(1);
  WM_CreateWindowAsChild(0, 0, LCD_GetXSize(), LCD_GetYSize(), WM_HBKWIN, WM_CF_SHOW, _cbWin, 0);
}

void loop() {
  GUI_Exec();
}
```

> Using the window manager method is more complex and require more lines of code, but this method helps with keeping your GUI structured as it gets more elements and widgets to display. For example with the window manager it is impossible to overwrite areas outside a windows designated area. For a simple application not using a window manager might be good enough. Keep this in mind when developing your own emWin solutions! For more information, navigate over to the [emWin on Arduino documentation.](https://wiki.segger.com/emWin_on_Arduino#:~:text=Without%20the%20Window%20Manager%3A)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the window manager method is more complex and require more lines of code, but this method helps with keeping your GUI structured as it gets more elements and widgets to display. For example with the window manager it is impossible to overwrite areas outside a windows designated area. For a simple application not using a window manager might be good enough. Keep this in mind when developing your own emWin solutions! For more information, navigate over to the [emWin on Arduino documentation](https://wiki.segger.com/emWin_on_Arduino#:~:text=Without%20the%20Window%20Manager%3A).
```

Reviewer 2: Remember not to link punctuation in this way, read more [here](https://arduino.atlassian.net/wiki/x/x4Ai4Q).

[emWin full demo running on the GIGA Display Shield]()

## Hardware & Software Needed

- [Arduino GIGA R1 WiFi](https://store.arduino.cc/products/giga-r1-wifi)
- [Arduino GIGA Display Shield](https://store.arduino.cc/products/giga-display-shield)
- [Arduino IDE](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software)

## Downloading the Library and Core

The GIGA R1 core includes the [Arduino_H7_Video](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video) library that handles the display.

In this guide, we will be using three different libraries:
- [Arduino_H7_Video](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video), this one is bundled with the core, so make sure you have the latest version of the [Mbed core](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed) installed.
- [Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/libraries/arduino_gigadisplaytouch/), handles touch on the GIGA Display Shield
- [DIALOG.h](https://github.com/SEGGERMicro/emWin-Arduino-Library), the emWin library

To install them, open the library manager and install the latest version by searching for **"emWin"** and **"Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch"**.

> In the sketch include the library like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sketch include the emWin library like this:
```

```arduino
#include "DIALOG.h"
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There is no need to include the **"Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch"** library separately, as it is already incorporated within the emWin library.

```

## emWin Library Setup

In this section, we will go through the fundamental elements of an emWin sketch:
- How to define & configure the display,
- how to create a grid layout,
- how to add an object to the grid,
- how to update the display.

### emWin Screen Configuration

> When creating elements, information about the screen and placement needs to be provided. Let's create a pointer variable that can be used whenever the screenspace needs to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating elements, information about the screen and placement needs to be provided. The provided code initializes the emWin library, configuring display and touch controller settings. It sets the display to landscape mode, enables multi-buffering for the Windows manager, and creates a main window for content rendering.
```

**Full Example:**

```arduino
void setup() {
  /* Init SEGGER emWin library. It also init display and touch controller */
  GUI_Init();

  LCD_ROTATE_SetSel(1); /* Set landscape mode */
  WM_MULTIBUF_Enable(1); /* Enable multi buffering mode for Windows manager */

  /* Create the main window. It will include all the sub-windows */
  WM_CreateWindowAsChild(0, 0, LCD_GetXSize(), LCD_GetYSize(), WM_HBKWIN, WM_CF_SHOW, _cbWin, 0);
}
```

### Window Manager 

The examples in this tutorial will be using the window manager method. This makes it easier to manage the screen elements and widgets. However, it is also possible to create emWin sketches without the window manager, which will be shown in this section.

> Here is an example that will make the screens background color red and print the text "Hello world" on the screen. Lets first take a look at how this would look without the window manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example that sets the screen background color to green and prints the text "Hello world" in red on the screen. Lets first take a look at how this would look without the window manager:
```

    break;
  default:
    WM_DefaultProc(pMsg);
    break;
  }
}

void setup() {
  GUI_Init();
  WM_MULTIBUF_Enable(1);
  WM_CreateWindowAsChild(0, 0, LCD_GetXSize(), LCD_GetYSize(), WM_HBKWIN, WM_CF_SHOW, _cbWin, 0);
}

void loop() {
  GUI_Exec();
}
```

Using the window manager method is more complex and require more lines of code, but this method helps with keeping your GUI structured as it gets more elements and widgets to display. For example with the window manager it is impossible to overwrite areas outside a windows designated area. For simpler applications, the window manager may not be needed. Keep this in mind when developing your own emWin solutions! For more information, navigate over to the [emWin on Arduino documentation](https://wiki.segger.com/emWin_on_Arduino#:~:text=Without%20the%20Window%20Manager%3A).

### Creating a Grid Layout

To create different windows inside our display, use the `WM_CreateWindowAsChild()` function. Here is the function with the parameters that should be given:

```arduino
WM_CreateWindowAsChild(X-position, Y-position, Height, Width, ParentWindow, VisibilityFlag, WindowsCallback, AdditionalBytes);
```

[Grid layout infographic]()

> This is how it would look to use emWin to create a 2x2 grid layout:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is how it would look to use emWin to create a 2x2 grid layout inside the main window:
```
